#515: Add requirements & design (#521)
exasol/project-keeper: doc/system_requirements.md

### Automatic Dependency Update Process
`feat~automatic-dependency-update-process~1`

PK supports the automatic dependency process. This speeds up fixing vulnerabilities in third party dependencies and creating releases.

Rationale:

We have 130+ projects in the integration team that often require dependency updates due to security issues that are found in the dependencies or transitive dependencies. Most of the time the update is a combination of pulling the latest source, updating the dependencies, updating the change log, running the tests locally, on success pushing the branch, running CI and creating a release.

* Auto-update dependencies
* Automatically create change log entry
* Automatically run local tests
* Automatically push branch
* Automatically run CI
* Release

Needs: req

#### Auto-update dependencies
`req~auto-update-dependencies~1`

PK automatically updates dependencies when a new vulnerability is found.

Covers:
* [`feat~automatic-dependency-update-process~1`](#automatic-dependency-update-process)

Needs: dsn

#### Automatically create change log entry
`req~auto-create-changelog~1`

PK automatically generates the change log for fixed vulnerabilities.

Rationale:

> The change log for fixed vulnerabilities always has the same structure and can be easily automated to avoid manual work.

Reviewer: How does this work, if there is already a changelog file with entries for a new, unreleased version?

Author: PK must update the changelog file accordingly. This is the difficult part :-P

Reviewer 2: From terminology perspective I would love to distinguish between 
* changelog = list of revisions
* changes file = details about the changes in a single revision

In case we need an over-arching term for both items, maybe including additional components, maybe being a little bit more abstract, we could think of something like _changes documentation_ or _list of changes_ etc.

Author: ✅

Covers:
* [`feat~automatic-dependency-update-process~1`](#automatic-dependency-update-process)

Needs: dsn

#### Automatically Create a Pull Request
`req~auto-create-pr~1`

PK creates a new Pull Request after upgrading dependencies.

Rationale:

A pull requests allows to
* automatically run tests using the upgraded dependencies to verify if the upgrade caused any problems
* review and approve changes
* manually modify files in case of problems

Covers:
* [`feat~automatic-dependency-update-process~1`](#automatic-dependency-update-process)

Needs: dsn

#### Automatic Release
`req~auto-release~1`

> PK automatically builds a new release whenever the `main` branch is updated.

Reviewer: oh, I see, this answers a previous question, regarding the changelog of the unreleased versions. In general, a nice goal, but somewhat dangerous, for several reasons. This basically requires perfect commits to main. If you have an intermediate commit, then this one must not interfere with proper working. This is sometimes difficult to achieve and often requires a develop branch.

Author: I added explanations about this.

#### Get Changed Dependency
`req~npm-changed-dependency~1`

PK can retrieve changed NPM dependencies that were added, updated or removed since the last release.

Covers:
* `feat~npm-project-support~1`

Needs: dsn

### Automatic Dependency Update Process
`feat~automatic-dependency-update-process~1`

> PK supports the automatic dependency process. This speeds up fixing vulnerabilities in third party dependencies and creating releases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PK supports a process for automated dependency update. This speeds up fixing vulnerabilities in third party dependencies and creating releases.
```

Rationale:

> We have 130+ projects in the integration team that often require dependency updates due to security issues that are found in the dependencies or transitive dependencies. Most of the time the update is a combination of pulling the latest source, updating the dependencies, updating the change log, running the tests locally, on success pushing the branch, running CI and creating a release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Exasol integration team maintains more than 130 projects that often require dependency updates due to security issues that are found in direct or transitive dependencies. In most cases the update requires pulling the latest source, updating the dependencies, updating the change log, running the tests locally, on success pushing the branch, running CI and creating a release as shown in the following bullet-list.
```

> * Auto-update dependencies
> * Automatically create change log entry
> * Automatically run local tests
> * Automatically push branch
> * Automatically run CI
> * Release

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Update dependencies
* Create change log entry
* Run local tests
* Push branch
* Run CI
* Release
```

As the last item "release" is the only one not prefixed by "automated": Should we maybe add a "manually" or "partially manually" here? Maybe a more specific comment would be enlightening?

Reviewer 2: Also in the headlines of the following sections we could remove the redundant "auto" and "automated".

Needs: req

#### Auto-update dependencies
`req~auto-update-dependencies~1`

> PK automatically updates dependencies when a new vulnerability is found.

Reviewer 2: "is found" is passive.
Could you write something like "reported  by ..." or maybe "reported  by ... in / as ... "?

Reviewer 2: Or some hint where or how PK detects such a vulnerability to be reported?

Covers:
* [`feat~automatic-dependency-update-process~1`](#automatic-dependency-update-process)

Needs: dsn

#### Automatically create change log entry
`req~auto-create-changelog~1`

> PK automatically generates the change log for fixed vulnerabilities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PK generates an entry in the change log for fixed vulnerabilities.
```

Rationale:

The change log for fixed vulnerabilities always has the same structure and can be easily automated to avoid manual work.

Covers:
* [`feat~automatic-dependency-update-process~1`](#automatic-dependency-update-process)

Needs: dsn

#### Automatically Create a Pull Request
`req~auto-create-pr~1`

PK creates a new Pull Request after upgrading dependencies.

Rationale:

A pull requests allows to

> * automatically run tests using the upgraded dependencies to verify if the upgrade caused any problems

Reviewer 2: Sorry for being picky: is it "dependency update" or "dependency upgrade"?

Reviewer 2: After picking your favorite I would appreciate if we could use only one term. :slightly_smiling_face:

Author: Good point ;)

* review and approve changes
* manually modify files in case of problems

Covers:
* [`feat~automatic-dependency-update-process~1`](#automatic-dependency-update-process)

Needs: dsn

#### Automatic Release
`req~auto-release~1`

PK automatically builds a new release whenever the `main` branch is updated.

Rationale:

* This reduces manual work, it's not necessary any more to manually run release-droid.

> * If a release is not intended, the user can leave the release date in the changes file undefined, e.g. `2024-??-??`. See [`dsn~release-workflow-run-verify-release~1`](design.md#releaseyml-workflow-release-verification).

Reviewer 2: Maybe on this level the system reqs could remain a little bit more abstract and leave the details (i.e. leave the release date in the changes file undefined) up to the design. 

In the system reqs we could write "Optionally the user can indicate to apply the changes, but postpone creating a release".

Covers:
* [`feat~automatic-dependency-update-process~1`](#automatic-dependency-update-process)

Needs: dsn

### Customizable Workflows
`feat~customize-workflows~0`

PK allows customizing the `ci-build.yml` and `release.yml` workflows with project-specific build steps.

Rationale:

> Some projects use customized workflows and exclude them from PK generation. Allowing to customize workflows will simplify maintenance of GH workflows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently some projects are already using customized workflows but needed to exclude them from PK generation. Allowing to customize workflows will simplify maintenance of GH workflows.
```

Needs: req

#### Customize Release Artifacts
`req~customize-release-artifacts~0`

PK allows customizing the list of files that are attached to new GitHub releases in the `release.yml` workflow.

Rationale:
Some projects need to release custom files like executable `.jar` files or `.js` extensions.

Needs: dsn

Covers:
* [`feat~customize-workflows~0`](#customizable-workflows)

#### Customize Build Process
`req~customize-build-process~0`

> PK allows adding pre and post steps during the build process as well as customize the actual build step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PK allows adding pre and post steps during the build process as well as customizing the actual build step.
```
